OCR'd and corrected by explosiveskull
I was an only child.
Sort of solitary by nature.
I learned to swim in the river
and that's where I met Loonie,
who began to help me
understand fear.
Do you reckon you can
row this thing over the bar?
The bar? I don't know.
I guess, on the right day,
you probably could.
I don't know if you'd ever
get her back again.
Why would you want to do that?
I don't know. It's the sea.
Huh. Righto, drop it.
There's more fish in here,
anyway, mate.
But I don't reckon
you ought to do it.
- So you reckon I won't?
- That's not what I said.
- I just...
- Shh. Listen.
Here he comes.
I don't reckon
we should do this.
- "We"? And don't follow me.
- I'm not going to.
You'll just get skittled.
Don't follow me.
Mm. Mm.
Lovely meal, Mrs Pike.
I'm sure your mum
can cook a corned beef, Ivan.
Mm. Nah.
- How'd you get that eye?
- Cricket.
Someone said
there were two boys
playing on the highway
this morning.
Said the driver nearly
lost control of his truck,
he had to brake that fast.
Oh, no. Those idiots.
- Mm.
- I know those kids.
- Oh, you do?
- Yeah.
Who are they?
Oh,
just some ning-nongs
from way up, way up from...
...from...
Angelus kids.
Yeah, those Angelus kids.
Yeah, they're real...
real buggers.
Ohh.
Ooh. So delicious.
I'm hoping
you've said your prayers.
'Cause if God doesn't look
after you, no-one else will.
Night, Ivan.
- Excuse me, Mrs Pike.
- Hm?
Do you reckon
I can get one of them?
Thank you.
I didn't know
you played cricket.
I don't. I hate cricket.
Got caught stealing
my old man's ciggies.
Night, Pikey.
Some old guy. They
were fishing off the rocks.
- Did he drown?
- Yeah.
Fucking sank like a stone.
And your dad had
a front-row seat.
So, there you are.
That's why he doesn't want
you coming out here.
Hm.
- How far is this?
- I don't know.
So, what would you do if she
put her hand in your pocket?
Why would she?
I don't know.
See what she could find?
I know what she'd find
if she put it in my pocket.
A flawlessly
well-sized Johnson.
Smooth-touch wonder,
that's what she'd find.
Look out. Move aside.
Keep pedalling, boys!
Look at that.
Come on, boys.
Not much further to go.
Got it.
Hey, wait!
You're gonna stack it! Let go.
No, seriously, let go.
Oh, ho-ho-ho! Oh, shit.
It's pretty small.
Oh, but nice and clean.
I'm gonna go for a walk.
Do you reckon
it'll pick up with the tide?
Never had I seen men do
something so beautiful...
...so pointless and elegant.
As if dancing on water
was the best and bravest thing
a man could do.
Thanks, guys.
- See you, boys.
- See you.
See you!
Hi, Mr Pike!
Afternoon, Ivan.
It's a good one, isn't it?
Bloody ripper, Mr Pike.
Where have you been, mate?
Oh, just for a ride.
They gave us a lift back.
- Bloody ripper!
- Your mum's been worried sick.
Alright? So, go inside
and say you're sorry.
And come back out here and
take the chickens in, please.
The first boards we got
were Coolites...
short, boxy, Styrofoam things
that squeaked
when you touched them.
They weren't much chop
but we thought they were
the duck's nuts.
Yeah, there she goes.
What we need, mate,
is real boards.
Genuine fibreglass,
hard ones.
With big stiff fins.
What do you say, Pikelet?
Yeah. Yeah, okay.
Ripper.
Look at yous two
stupid pricks.
It's raining.
And the water's as cold
as a witch's bits
and you're bloody swimming?
We like "bloody swimming",
Dad!
Five bucks a load
to chop it up.
Are you interested?
And there's four more loads.
If you don't do it,
I'll get someone else.
Hm?
- 20 bucks a truckload.
- Uh-uh.
- 15?
- Oh...
Ten. Fuck it. Ten.
Yeah?
- Each.
- Yous can get to buggery.
Ah. Come on.
And I want to kill it.
Oh. What are you doing?
I don't want you telling
the other guys
- where you got these from.
- Why not?
'Cause they're shit boards.
That's why.
- Oh. Thanks, Slipper.
- Thanks, mate.
Mine's better.
Mine's got wings. It's cooler.
My first wave that morning.
I leant across the wall
of upstanding water,
and the board came with me...
as though it was part of
my body and mind.
I still judge
every joyous moment
and every victory
and revelation
against those first few
seconds of riding that wave.
Wouldn't be dead for quids,
would you?
Right. Up in the back! Go on!
You boys need a ride?
Our bikes are just
at the top of the hill.
Yeah. Get in.
Just here.
Pair of hellmen, you two.
What is that?
Surfing bareback all weather.
How old are you?
- 14.
- Almost 14.
Bullshit. He's full of shit.
Oh, 13 and a half,
then.Jesus.
If you get tired of lugging
your boards,
you can leave them
at our place.
Jeez, thanks.
First driveway on the left,
half a mile onto the bitumen.
- Okay. Thanks for the ride.
- See you.
OK, cool. Cheers, mate.
Come on!
What do you reckon?
Mm.
Hippies. That's what I reckon.
Nah, fuck it.
My arm's rooted.
Hippies, alright.
Hello?
Anyone home?
Oi. Come check this out.
It's a total hippy love nest.
You shouldn't
be up there, Loonie.
Loonie, we should probably
just get going.
Yeah, yeah, I'm coming.
Don't get all fucking sulky
on me.
"Probably should get going,
Loonie."
Morning.
Mm.
Ohh...
A Brewer.
It's bloody paradise.
You boys
take a wrong turn?
Just came to get our boards.
They're just in there.
- Are they, now?
- Bloke said we could.
Better show me.
This one's mine.
That's his.
Uh-huh.
He's not here.
- Who?
- Sando.
- The bloke.
Oh, right, Sando.
Ah. Where is he, then?
Could be in Indonesia,
for all I know.
- Really?
- No.
It's not outside
the realm of possibility.
So, what's your name, anyway?
Eva.
And where are you from, Eva?
- From the US.
- Yeah.
I can hear the accent,
but which part?
- Utah.
- U-tar!
Alright if we
drop 'em back later?
'Cause we didn't ask...
your bloke offered.
Uh... see you later, Eva.
- I could tell she liked me.
- What?
What? She was looking at me
with that special look.
She wasn't looking
at anything.
That's what I mean.
She cool-looked me.
- She was keen.
- I don't know.
Ah, you don't know
these things, Pikelet.
You will, one of these days.
She's probably his wife.
Yeah, so? Aren't you
into those wives? Eh?
The sea was different
that day,
but we went out anyway...
because we didn't know
any better.
How about it, Snowy?
- Are you going?
- Piss off!
Here we go.
Into it.
Take the next one in, kid.
Waiting for a little one, eh?
Oh, shit.
Listen, numb nut,
if you don't get the next one,
I'm taking the one after that.
You'll be out here on your own
all bloody night.
Into it, son! Into it!
What about mine?
Did you see that?
Oh, you got so skittled.
- That was huge.
- Yeah.
My one went all the way in.
- He's out there, isn't he?
- Course he is.
Fuck him. Jesus.
- Whoo-hoo.
- Okay, come on, let's go.
Only a bloody idiot would be
out there on a day like today.
I'll surf that one day.
You dare me?
I dare you to dare me.
What is that?
These guys built a raft
and sailed all the way across
the Pacific on the current.
Wow.
- It's incredible.
- Mm.
Uh... Are we um...?
- You and... You and me?
- Yeah.
Ah! Here they are.
Heckle and Jeckle.
- Looking for trouble.
- Look at this.
Oh, mate.
Heard you boys got
a bit of swell the other day.
Yeah. We um... It was
about seven or eight foot.
Yeah. There was a couple
of nine-footers as well.
- Yeah, it was massive.
- Seven or eight foot, huh?
- Mm.
- Yeah.
Well...
...I'm gonna take this
for a spin.
You got yourselves a lift
if you're looking to get wet.
- Really?
- Yes. Get wet. For sure.
Put your boards in the back.
Rooster! In the back!
Good boy.
See you later.
I caught one at least that.
He was shitting himself.
He'd never been out
in anything that big.
Oh! Neither have you.
I rode one the whole way in
and then kicked down
on the sand.
Well, that's impressive.
How about you, Pikelet?
- Did you get any?
- Yeah, I got one.
- Got skittled on the inside.
- Then later,
the Angelus crew came and took
us to the top of that ridge,
- to that bommie.
- Oh, yeah? Old Smoky.
Yeah, that was going off.
Yeah, there was someone
out there trying to surf it.
Yeah, who is that guy?
- Does someone surf that?
- Oh, on occasion.
How would they get out there?
Oh, that would be telling,
wouldn't it?
Yeah, right, Old Smoky,
it was going off.
It must have been
twenty-something foot easy.
That's a big,
wild coast out that way.
Full of surprises.
- Hi, Dad.
- Hey, mate.
How are you?
Mm. Delicious chops, Mum.
You love your chops.
Love, try and keep your nose
out of the sun.
You know that hat
that Dad got you?
- The fishing one?
- Yeah.
- I reckon it's somewhere.
- Mm-hm.
Tops day, Mum.
Once we were accepted,
allowed in,
if we weren't with Sando,
we were just marking time.
All up through here,
waves all through that region.
Have you been
up there before?
Yeah, in this region,
several times down here,
but never
that far north or west.
So,
how do you get there?
We didn't know it yet,
but we'd already
imagined ourselves
into a different life.
- See you, mate.
- See you.
Oi!
Look at this.
"Sanderson:
Styling at perfect Rincon."
He's on the front cover
of this one too.
Look at him. Shit.
This is Morocco in 1968.
This is Hawaii in '71.
- What?
- Yeah, what else is there?
He's been all over the place.
Hollister Ranch. Where's that?
- Look at him.
- Oh...
Let's put 'em in order.
'73.
'71.
Oi!
Nice haircut, man.
What are you doing?
Where the fuck
did you find those?
Just um... They were
just there in the boxes.
Alright, that's cool.
Stack 'em up
and put 'em away.
I want you to stay here
and wait for me, okay?
Stay here and wait.
- Eva!
- Quick, quick.
Do you know how those boxes
got there?
Hey!
I'm talking to you.
- What?
- What the fuck are you doing?
Why do you keep them
if you hate them so much?
I said, why do you keep them
- Liar!
- Don't take it out on me!
Kids, Billy.
Hanging out with kids.
They're gonna kiss
and make up. Let's go.
He said wait.
Can I play?
Piss off.
Didn't mean
to piss anyone off.
Ah, it's just a bunch
of old crap.
Don't worry about it.
Get your bikes in the back.
I'll give yous a ride home.
Oh, listen,
there's a little spurt
of swell coming
day after tomorrow.
It should be offshore,
so get up early.
- Early?
- Sparrow's fart.
I'll pick yous both up.
We'll go somewhere discreet.
Secret.
Yeah. I think you're ready.
Thinking of taking the dory
out fishing on Saturday,
if you want to come, mate.
Um... I'm probably gonna go
out to the beach with Loonie.
Oh.
Alright.
Can I please leave the table?
Oh!
Where we going?
Let's just say
we have an appointment
with the undisclosed.
They're yours.
Oh, fuck! That's yours.
- Look at that.
- Smell it. Go on, smell it.
Oh, my God.
Oi! Guide me in!
- Yeah, keep coming.
- You're there.
Oi, get my back.
Do this. Quick.
Where the fuck are we?
This is Barney's.
Drag her in.
How come the name?
Well, because Barney
lives here.
Only fair to tell you.
Wow!
Whoo-hoo.
Oh...
- Oh...
- Oh.
- Do it.
- Let's go.
And what about
this guy Barney?
Oh, Barney.
Well, he's not hungry all the
time, which improves the odds.
Fuck.
Tell me it's not a shark.
Okay. It's not a shark.
Well, it's not your average
shark, let's put it that way.
- What?
I've been coming for years.
Still got my fingers and toes.
You've seen him?
Yeah, five, maybe... six times.
What kind of shark is this?
Like I said,
not your average Noah.
Stop pissing about
and fucking say it.
It's a white pointer, mate.
The great white hunter.
Fucking fuck fuck.
- How big is this thing?
- Oh, 14 foot.
I don't know.
It's hard to say, Pikelet.
It's got a big old head,
though,
and a grin like
Richard fucking Nixon.
Why the fuck
did you bring us here?
I thought you had
the nads for it.
You're not scared,
are you, Loonie?
He's bullshitting.
He's shitting us.
Maybe.
He's calling us fucking sooks.
He thinks we're
just gonna sit here
like a couple
of fucking girls.
Mm.
Fuck.
It's some fucking good idea.
Fucking... Fuck. Fuck.
Ah, bugger the bloody
biggest shark!
Come on!
Oh, credit
where credit's due.
You got the wave of the day,
mate. That was a smoker.
Oh!
I wish we had a camera.
It was too good.
We should have got a photo.
- Ah, you don't need no photo.
- Just to show and prove it.
You don't need to prove
anything. You were there.
- At least you blokes saw it.
- My oath.
It's not about us,
it's about you.
Your moment with the sea.
- That's hippy shit, man.
- What's that?
It's fucking hippy shit.
- Oh, is that so?
- Yeah.
Alright for you.
You've got plenty of shots
to prove what you done.
Honolua Bay, man. Morocco.
It's all horseshit.
It's wallpaper.
It's easy
for you to say.
Son, eventually
it's just you and it.
You'll be out there, thinking,
"Do I know what I'm doing?
Am I solid?
Or am I just ordinary?"
- How does it feel?
- How does what feel, mate?
When it's that serious.
Ah.
You boys will find out.
Like, I mean... 20 feet.
I'll tell you something, mate.
You're glad
there's no bloody photo.
But when you're still alive
and you're standing there
at the end,
and you've just made it...
...it's not... You can't...
You're completely alive,
completely in your body.
You just get this rush.
It's...
Ah, it's just like you've felt
the hand of God.
The rest of it is just
sport and recreation.
Can I have the flippers,
please?
The waves that we're after
come ahead of the storm.
Clean and powerful.
Here's Old Smoky.
It's about half a mile
off the coast.
And this is
the continental shelf, right?
So, when the wave hits here,
the water rises up
on the shoal
and turns itself inside-out.
It's not so much about
the height and size,
it's about the volume,
the girth.
That's where the power is.
We'll paddle out here,
we wait in the channel.
We check our position here,
the limestone streak,
the line of trees,
find the perfect
take-off spot.
I mean, it's simple, really.
You choose the right wave,
you're half way home.
But if you judge wrong
and you take off too far
across the reef,
then you're in more trouble
than the early settlers.
It's not about what's up here.
Nothing to do with
the thoughts in your head.
It's about the work
you've done.
That and surrender.
Surrender is what frees you up
to be completely
in the moment.
To commit with your body
and your soul.
With complete certainty.
Not a shred of doubt.
Not a shred.
Hey, Rooster.
Hi. Where are they?
What are you doing?
Where is everyone?
What do you want?
Sorry, I thought...
I thought I heard
a noise and just...
came up to have a look.
You missed him. He's gone off
somewhere for a paddle.
Breeze is all onshore, anyway.
Yeah.
What happened... to your knee?
Skiing accident.
Do you ever ski?
No. I've never seen snow.
Yeah, well...
white and cold.
How long till it's better?
How long is a piece of string?
What piece of string?
It doesn't matter.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
See you.
Old Smoky's right about here.
Let it go.
It's deep.
Well, it won't seem so deep
on the top of a ten-footer.
Let's have a look, shall we?
Wait.
Loonie, wait!
- Like chilli?
- No.
Well, you're gonna learn to.
This is new.
That, Pikelet, is my wife.
- You're shitting me.
- I shit you not.
Far out.
Yeah, pretty much
covers it, doesn't it?
How does she do it?
Big downhill run off a jump.
She just soars through
the air while doing a flip.
And lands on her feet.
- Well, that's the plan.
- Jeez.
Yeah, she's erm..
Mate, she's pretty well known.
And that's Utah in '71.
And she's been out now
three, maybe... four...
More.
She's over there right now.
- Skiing?
- Jesus, no.
Not with that knee.
She's erm...
They're trying
another operation.
- And they're gonna fix it?
- That's the hope.
How can she stand it here?
There's no snow.
I think she prefers it.
I mean, if you couldn't surf,
could you stand living
right next to the ocean?
The ocean's beautiful.
That'd be enough for me.
Bullshit.
No, really.
You know, just to see it.
Yeah, well,
I'd rather be dead.
Keep the chicken wire
for me.
They're okay.
I don't want them here.
Jesus Christ. Billy, grow up.
Hey, Rooster.
There you go, mate.
You boys need
to make yourselves scarce.
No worries.
Keep your eyes open. There's
something brewing down south.
- Could be good for Old Smoky.
- Really?
Welcome back, Eva.
Let's just go
to your place.
There's no way
I'd let my wife run the show.
No way!
He lets her get away
with so much shit.
Reckon your mum's
done scones.
I love your mum!
There was nothing else to do
but wait.
- Then we got the word.
- Good night.
Old Smoky was on.
God bless.
Unfortunately for Loonie,
two days earlier,
he'd tripped down the stairs
at the pub...
with a little help from
his old man, no doubt.
That's him.
Come on, let's go.
Are you shitting yourself?
What's he up to?
Hey, Loonie...
He doesn't want to watch?
I don't think so.
Hey, come and watch out
for your mate.
Oh, and spoil
your secret hippy moment?
- Watch and learn.
- Ah, no fucking worries.
- I'd love that.
- Show a bit of support.
What for? He's chicken.
- You're a coward.
- Jesus, son.
- Don't be an arsehole.
- Fuck off, coach!
You're definitely getting wet
this morning.
Feels onshore in here,
but round there
it'll be clean.
Getting out's the easy part.
Coming in is when
you have to concentrate.
You've got to be patient,
okay?
Wouldn't be dead for quids,
would you?
I wonder what
the ordinary people
are doing today.
What are you doing?
- You ride the Brewer.
- Oh, are you sure?
Yeah, yeah, just take it
before I change my mind.
- Thanks.
- Now, watch what I do...
and you follow.
You've got to get into
some of that.
You know what's what, mate.
You'll never forgive yourself.
Pikelet.
Pikelet!
Go out wide! In the channel!
Deep water. Safe.
Come on, mate.
We'll do something else.
Look at me.
Let's just do something
different, alright?
- We're gonna play a little game.
- Okay.
We're gonna see who can
touch the bottom first.
Ready? One, two, three.
You're right here, Pikelet.
You're right here right now,
okay?
You just panicked, that's all.
We all do that.
You've got this, mate.
You've got this, okay?
Yeah? Let's do it.
- Yeah.
- Let's have a go.
- Okay.
- Come on.
Alright, mate. You're gonna
let the first one go,
let it draw some water.
And then the second one's
got your name on it, okay?
Paddle to it,
turn and commit.
Not a shred of doubt.
Got me?
Here we go.
Go, Pikelet.
Go, Pikelet!
Pikelet!
Yeah, mate. Good work.
Good work.
The next one's gonna be fun,
alright?
Hold off with your bottom
turn, drop a bit of speed...
How big?
Big enough to get the Boy
Wonder's heart started.
How big...
- ...Boy Wonder?
- I don't know.
Ten? 15?
Yeah. Ten, maybe.
Yeah. Surfed it at about ten.
Solid.
So he got waves?
Yeah, yeah, he did good.
I took
the worst flogging ever.
But you did the deed.
Made himself a bit of history.
He'd never be the first
or the youngest
out at Old Smoky,
but he'd seen
what he had to do,
and by mid-winter
he'd finally got his chance.
Whatever we did that day,
or any day,
Loonie did it harder.
He went later
and deeper than either of us.
He hadn't simply taken
Old Smoky on.
He'd taken it over.
He surfed like someone
who didn't believe in death.
Yeah, killed it, Loonie!
Killed it, mate!
- Ripper!
- Owned it, mate.
- That's the way.
- Fuck, yeah.
Hey, hey! No, wait in the bus!
The truckie!
The truckie's stuck!
Unlock it!
Unlock it.
Three miles offshore,
a bommie off a granite
island... seal colony...
holds a shit-load of swell
and gets very square.
You launch
from the old whaling cove.
- You've done it?
- I've scoped it a few times.
- Buzzed out in the tinny.
- But you haven't surfed it?
You don't know
when to stop.
No, actually, I think you do
know when you should stop,
but you won't.
No, Pikelet,
I haven't surfed it yet.
There's a wave
inside the wave.
That's right, the Nautilus.
The reef must be
right underneath the surface.
Low tide,
it's above the surface.
You can only surf it
mid to high.
The next frontier.
You think that's
possible? Really, honestly?
Honestly, Pikelet?
I need to take a shit
just looking at it.
You scared, are you?
I'm scared.
Yeah, well,
fear's only natural, mate.
There's no shame in it.
Whatever you reckon.
People face down fears
every day.
They make bargains with God.
They make a decision,
they put their mind to it,
then they're half way there.
Daring to try,
that's mankind for you.
I'm sure
you mean humankind.
Yeah, thanks.
We can always go back
to surfing the point
at two foot and sunny.
Piece of piss!
You're a turkey, Loonie.
- I didn't say I was scared.
- You are a turkey.
- He said he was scared.
- Turkey! Turkey!
We started our research
on the Nautilus.
Homework, Sando called it.
But that winter
didn't amount to much.
And without swell,
we became bored...
...and restless.
See you.
Bruce Pike,
you are moody, selfish
and very inattentive.
Therefore, I hereby notify you
that you are,
from this point forward,
relieved of any further duties
as my boyfriend.
Yours sincerely,
Queenie Cookson.
If Ahab has his way,
thee nor me nor any member
of this ship's company
will ever see home again.
I hear Loonie's left school.
Come now, Mr Starbuck,
you're just plain gloomy.
Dad said
he's working down the mill.
- He ain't that big.
- I do not fear Moby Dick...
Hm.
- I fear the wrath of God.
- The wrath of God?
It is our task
in life to kill whales,
and furnish up their oil
for the lamps of the world.
A monster storm showed up.
On the weather map, it looked
like a tumour on the sea.
Sando was fired up.
He was determined
we'd go for it this time.
When you go,
go early and go wide.
I don't know
if I'm feeling it.
Come on,
you know what's what.
I think I'm just
gonna watch for a bit.
Didn't bring you out here
to watch, mate.
- Come on! Fuck, let's go!
- Just wait!
Stuff this. I'm out of here.
Look, I thought
I'd brought surfers with me,
men above the ordinary.
I said wait!
Man, you gotta taste
some of that!
Hey...
Hey, Rooster, boy. Hey...
Come on.
There you go.
What are you doing
sneaking around?
Oh, I just came to,
you know, see Sando.
- What?
- Just came to see Sando.
Was that you the other night?
What? No.
Doesn't matter.
Can you help me
with this stuff, please?
Pardon?
Can you help me with
this fucking stuff, please?
Fuckin' rain.
Do you want coffee?
Oh, I can do that.
I'll make the coffee.
You sit down.
Thanks.
How's your knee?
Here we are, Pikelet.
All on our lonesome.
What do you mean?
- He didn't tell you either?
- Tell me what?
He's gone.
Indonesia would be my guess.
Took your little pal with him.
- What?
- Yeah.
Took Loonie
to Indo-fucking-nesia.
You're the lone musketeer.
You couldn't have gone anyway.
You've got school and stuff.
- Yeah, but...
- Bad manners.
Guru shit and bad manners
pretty much go hand in hand.
Do you want coffee?
I don't even drink
bloody coffee.
Come on in and get dry.
You'll catch your death
out here.
I'm getting you a towel
and a dry shirt.
Thank you.
- I can do it.
- It's alright.
Hold me.
Be nice to me, okay, Pikelet?
I will.
Don't brag about me.
Not to Loonie, not to anyone.
Okay.
I won't.
No-one.
I had a postcard
from Thailand.
There's waves in Thailand.
- He's been in Bangkok.
- Aren't they in Java?
Something about supplies.
Who knows?
Now he's talking about
the eastern islands.
Why do you let him go?
He needs it.
What about what you need?
He knows what I need.
It's getting cold.
You should go.
I can make a fire.
God, you're getting weirder.
- What's been happening?
- Nothing. Nothing much.
It's like you're off the air.
Just got lots going on,
that's all.
So, lots or nothing much?
Which one is it?
I still want you to take me
to the social, okay?
Will you?
Those last few moments
in the air...
...they were the last
happy moments of my life.
I miss being afraid.
Maybe it'll get better
this time.
I love you.
You love getting laid.
No. I mean it.
You don't know what you mean.
Don't say shit you don't
understand. Just don't.
Alright.
Pick you up at 11:30.
Thanks, Dad.
I can't.
It's nothing.
Whatever you reckon.
Want to play a game?
I don't get it.
I'll show you.
What if I don't want to?
I'll be disappointed, I guess.
Alright. Show me.
You know
how to hyperventilate, right?
- It's kind of like that.
- You choke yourself?
Sort of, yeah.
Fuck, why?
Because, little man,
makes me come
like a freight train.
What? You want me to...
...choke myself too?
No, of course not.
I just want you to watch.
Jeez, I... I don't know.
It feels better,
I can't tell you.
And it's safer,
like having a dive buddy.
I don't want you
to hurt yourself.
I won't.
Not if you don't let me.
I love you.
We'll see.
Pikelet, it's okay, I'm fine.
Look at me. I'm fine.
Being scared's half the fun.
You should know that by now.
Does Sando do that to you?
I don't have to answer that.
I don't like it.
I understand you, Pikelet.
You're different.
You've got this look...
...like you're expecting
to lose something.
And you're right.
You're right to expect it
to be snatched away.
'Cause it can be.
I don't know.
It doesn't feel right.
I just don't think you should
ask me to do certain stuff.
Yeah, I'll be here.
Are you pregnant?
Go home. Fun's over.
- Is it mine?
- Don't be absurd.
Well... I can...
Do you want me
to chop some wood?
No, I don't. Just go.
Hey. How's it goin'?
When did you get back?
Last night.
- So, how was it over there?
- Fuckin' unbelievable.
We got everything.
We got shot at, seen off,
spider-bitten, deported.
And honkin' waves.
I copped this.
What happened?
Oh, just the reef.
Rips the shit out of you.
Uluwatu. It's...
It's insane.
You would've loved it.
Just big, smooth,
green walls
that just reel off for days.
- Yeah.
- Wow!
It was fuckin' amazing, man.
You really missed out.
I brought you something.
Here.
- What is it?
- Close your eyes.
Hold out your hand.
Don't look. Just smell it.
It smells like shit.
Had to get it through
the airport somehow!
It's hash, mate.
Had it up my date.
Johnny Cash.
Put it in your pocket.
You'll thank me later.
Lookin' tall and stassy,
Pikelet. Manly.
Hm. I like it.
But, um, heard you went out
Old Smoky and lost his Brewer.
- Yeah.
- Gonna be dirty about that.
Could be dirty about
something else too.
What are you talking about?
Oh, nothing. Just gossip.
Filthy gossip.
The old man, you know?
Hm... Nautilus is gonna break
this weekend.
- Yeah?
- Mm.
Sunday morning,
Sando reckons.
He said he wanted
to catch up with you.
- I haven't seen him.
- He's scared of Nautilus.
Shit-scared of it.
He's getting old, but...
Oh. Hello, Ivan.
Back, I see.
Yeah,
back in little old Sawyer.
Oh.
See you Sunday.
Dawn's crack.
Sando'll talk to you.
Pssht.
- How've you been?
- Yeah, good.
Yeah?
Chopped a lot of wood
out at my place, Pikelet.
- Bloody lot.
- Yeah.
Don't want you to think
I don't notice these things.
Eva was glad for the company.
So she says.
- Yeah?
- Mm.
Got the board back.
The Brewer.
- Really?
- Yeah.
Tuna fisherman found it
25Ks out to sea.
Yeah. Sorry about that.
No worries, mate.
Don't need to be sorry.
You took on Old Smoky
by yourself.
That's up there, Pikelet.
Hats off, mate.
That is up there.
In my books,
you earned that board.
It's yours, mate. Yours.
- Oh, thanks, but...
- No, no, it's yours.
Okay?
Thanks.
It's alright.
Your mate Loonie...
Jesus!
Well, you know what he's like.
Long story. Can't be trusted.
Wilful little bastard.
He's fuckin' nuts, actually.
You know what else?
What?
Well, I think you know
what I'm talking about.
No.
I'm gonna be a father.
Yeah. I thought
you looked different.
Did you?
Well, are you gonna
congratulate me or what?
Yeah! Course.
- Congratulations.
- Yeah, thanks, man.
So, listen, there's...
There's a front
coming in from down south.
Should be breaking at Nautilus
this Sunday morning.
Good clean swell.
Perfect angle.
You're gonna want to be there
with that Brewer
under your feet.
- Yeah. Okay.
- Okay.
Alright, mate. Well, I'll pick
you up Sunday at dawn.
So, erm, yeah...
Yeah, what?
I'm not coming.
Fuck.
- You're kidding!
- No.
It's not for me.
It's an ugly wave,
and I don't like it.
Bullshit.
Get in.
It doesn't make me ordinary...
or a coward.
It's just not for me.
Okay, mate.
Maybe you should get
your board out of the back.
No, it's fine.
It's not even my board.
I said you earned that board.
So it's yours, okay?
Now get your fucking board
out of the back.
Pikelet, come here!
You've got your own thing,
Pikelet.
Don't lose that, okay?
Now piss off.
- Ah, ta.
- There you go.
There's fear in all of us.
I know that now.
It's how you live with it
that makes you who you are.
Years later, when
I got the news about Loonie,
I can't say I was surprised.
But it hit me... hard.
A single gunshot
to the back of the head.
Some kind of drug deal
gone bad.
He always lived
like he had nothing to lose.
'Cause he thought
he didn't matter.
Well, he mattered to me.
I miss the mad bastard.
I still paddle out
whenever I can.
Not to prove anything.
Just... to feel it.
That sweet momentum.
The turning force under foot.
And in those brief,
rare moments of grace...
...I'm dancing.
OCR'd and corrected by explosiveskull